Explain the four informal guidelines discussed in Section 14.1.
i. Clear semantics to attributes in relations
It should be easy to describe the meaning of a relational schema.  To accomplish this, do not combine attributes from different entity types ad relationships types into a single relationship.
ii.  No Redundant Information in Tuples or Update Anomalies
There should be no insertion, deletion, or modification anomalies present in the relation.  The anomalies occur attributes related to one relation are repeated in another relation.  For example, when Dnumber, Dname, and Dmgr_ssn are repeated in the employee table for every employee. 
iii. NULL Values in Tuples
NULL should not apply to the majority of tuples in a relation, they should be the exception.
iv. Generation of Spurious Tuples
When joining attributes, should join with FK, PK.  Otherwise, you might get spurious results.

Explain the terms functional dependency (for Monday, see Section 14.2) and multi-valued dependency (for Wednesday, see Section 14.6) by giving an example of each and showing how it satisfies the term’s formal definition.
A functional dependency is one that when X and Y are two subsets of R that have tuples t1 and t2 if t1[X] = t2[X] then t1[Y]=t2[y].  In simpler terms, if two tuples have the same X value, they must also have the same Y value i.e. the X value is determining the Y value.  The book gives an example of the Pname and Plocation being functionally determined by the Pnumber.  That is because one Pnumber could not have two different names or two different locations.  For example, if we knew the project was project number 1 we would also know for sure that its name is say WonderfulProject and its location is Michigan – thus the name and location have been determined by the number of the project.uhc


Explain BCNF (for Monday, see Section 14.5) and 4NF (for Wednesday, see Section 14.6) by giving an example relation and proving whether its schema conforms (or fails to conform) to the definitions of each normal form.
BCNF: Every relation within 3NF is also within BCNF.  Relational shema R in BCNF if there is a notntrivial functional dependency X -> A in R then X is a superkey of R.  The example in the book says the SIZE of the lot would be dependent on the COUNTRY the lot is in.  Then, would have additional dependency that Area -> Country_name.  Though this does not cause a problem for 3BNF, using BCNF would make a new tables with the Lot# and Property# with the corresponding area reducing the redundancy of repeating information.

4NF: Wednesday8

Explain when one would one want to normalize a relational schema and when one might want to de-normalize one.
Normalizing a database consists of 1)minimizing redundancy and 2)minimizing insertion, deletion, and update anomalies.  Thus, one would want to normalize a database to ensure that it would minimize storage space and when inserting not require many NULL values and when updating not have inconsistencies.  Normalization is used to ensure good quality that is sustainable over long periods of time.

The down side with normalization is that it might be harder/take longer to get data since the process might require more joins because in order to minimize redundancy we have broken each relation to only contain specific attributes.  In short, querying will be slower.

